# YREC-Wrappers
Wrappers, helpful codes, and additional machinery to interface with YREC with languages such as Python. Presented here as individual scripts to copy/paste and/or download. Compatible with command line and Jupyter/Spyder, other such programs

## newheader_yrec:
Provides the user with a modified wrthead.f file, to be used in the compiling/recompiling process. Allows for the generation of output files in a format that is better suited to reading into pandas, astropy.table, etc. and other modern astronomical data analysis tools for python. 

## change_nml: 
YREC utilizes two namelists, one is a nml1 which controls settings, primes models, and provides paths to the correct places where the code is to output the results of a run as well as where the input files of equations of state, physics, opacities, etc are stored. change_nml allows the user to change all the filepaths in a directory of namelists to the approriate matching files in the directory where YREC is stored. The YREC directory tree for input files specifically must remain as downloaded for it to work. 

## modelgrid_tools:
Contains guidelines and tools to create a grid of models in YREC. See the readme.md file in the folder for more details. This also contains update_nml.py, which allows the user to change several namelist parameters for multiple nml files at once.

## yrec_runner:
Run multiple YREC namelists in parallel with optional verbose output and progress bar. Designed for batch execution of stellar evolution model runs. Allows for user to select a folder of nml1 and nml2 files after being edited by change_nml to ensure all paths are updated. Lets user run in parallel and always leavs 3 cores left open for other computer operations. User can also turn off parallel function by selecting the ncore_override = 1.

## load_yrec_tracks: 
Allows for the loading of YREC tracks in from the outputs generated by yrec_runner or from command-line run YREC outputs. Gives functionality for users to create isochrones, with the accuracy with which track ages are grouped together subject to user change (defaults to grouping all tracks to the nearest 0.01 Gyr). Also allows for grouping of tracks into EEPs using the Mass column in YREC. **Calibrated for usage with the updated headers in newheader_yrec.**

## YREC_Isochrone_guide:
The YREC Isochrones Guide jupyter notebook walks the user through the process for making isochrones from a YREC grid using `kiauhoku` (Claytor et al. 2020). The notebook contains a tutorial for making isochrones with a pre-made sample grid and set of EEPs (equivalent evolutionary phases) and a tutorial on formatting and creating isochrones from a custom YREC-made grid.

## read_output_files:
Allows the user to read individual .store, .last, and .track YREC output files into Pandas dataframes without
any additional processing of the output files. 